README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: PostgreSQL

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs and configures PostgreSQL server on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers.

## Requirements

No special requirements; note that this role requires root access, so either run it in a playbook with a global `become: yes`, or invoke the role in your playbook like:

    - hosts: database
      roles:
        - role: geerlingguy.postgresql
          become: yes

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    postgresql_enablerepo: ""

(RHEL/CentOS only) You can set a repo to use for the PostgreSQL installation by passing it in here.

    postgresql_restarted_state: "restarted"

Set the state of the service when configuration changes are made. Recommended values are `restarted` or `reloaded`.

    postgresql_python_library: python-psycopg2

Library used by Ansible to communicate with PostgreSQL. If you are using Python 3 (e.g. set via `ansible_python_interpreter`), you should change this to `python3-psycopg2`.

    postgresql_user: postgres
    postgresql_group: postgres

The user and group under which PostgreSQL will run.

    postgresql_unix_socket_directories:
      - /var/run/postgresql

The directories (usually one, but can be multiple) where PostgreSQL's socket will be created.

    postgresql_service_state: started
    postgresql_service_enabled: true

Control the state of the postgresql service and whether it should start at boot time.

    postgresql_global_config_options:
      - option: unix_socket_directories
        value: '{{ postgresql_unix_socket_directories | join(",") }}'

Global configuration options that will be set in `postgresql.conf`. Note that for RHEL/CentOS 6 (or very old versions of PostgreSQL), you need to at least override this variable and set the `option` to `unix_socket_directory`.

    postgresql_hba_entries:
      - { type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer }
      - { type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer }
      - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '127.0.0.1/32', auth_method: md5 }
      - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '::1/128', auth_method: md5 }

Configure [host based authentication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) entries to be set in the `pg_hba.conf`. Options for entries include:

  - `type` (required)
  - `database` (required)
  - `user` (required)
  - `address` (one of this or the following two are required)
  - `ip_address`
  - `ip_mask`
  - `auth_method` (required)
  - `auth_options` (optional)

If overriding, make sure you copy all of the existing entries from `defaults/main.yml` if you need to preserve existing entries.

    postgresql_locales:
      - 'en_US.UTF-8'

(Debian/Ubuntu only) Used to generate the locales used by PostgreSQL databases.

    postgresql_databases:
      - name: exampledb # required; the rest are optional
        lc_collate: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
        lc_ctype: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
        encoding: # defaults to 'UTF-8'
        template: # defaults to 'template0'
        login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
        login_password: # defaults to not set
        login_user: # defaults to 'postgresql_user'
        login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
        port: # defaults to not set
        owner: # defaults to postgresql_user
        state: # defaults to 'present'

A list of databases to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

    postgresql_users:
      - name: jdoe #required; the rest are optional
        password: # defaults to not set
        encrypted: # defaults to not set
        priv: # defaults to not set
        role_attr_flags: # defaults to not set
        db: # defaults to not set
        login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
        login_password: # defaults to not set
        login_user: # defaults to '{{ postgresql_user }}'
        login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
        port: # defaults to not set
        state: # defaults to 'present'

A list of users to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

    postgres_users_no_log: true

Whether to output user data (which may contain sensitive information, like passwords) when managing users.

    postgresql_version: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_data_dir: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_bin_path: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_config_path: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_daemon: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_packages: [OS-specific]

OS-specific variables that are set by include files in this role's `vars` directory. These shouldn't be overridden unless you're using a version of PostgreSQL that wasn't installed using system packages.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: database
      become: yes
      vars_files:
        - vars/main.yml
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.postgresql

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

    postgresql_databases:
      - name: example_db
    postgresql_users:
      - name: example_user
        password: supersecure

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

integrate into homelab
add disclaimer

fix tests

second round of fixes

harden role against misuse and add root user for backups

move homelab tasks to separate file

integrate into homelab

add disclaimer

second round of fixes

move homelab tasks to separate file

disable amazonlinux

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: PostgreSQL

NOTE: This role is a fork intended for my homelab. I do not reccomend using it over the original role.

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs and configures PostgreSQL server on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers.

## Requirements

No special requirements; note that this role requires root access, so either run it in a playbook with a global `become: yes`, or invoke the role in your playbook like:

    - hosts: database
      roles:
        - role: geerlingguy.postgresql
          become: yes

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    postgresql_enablerepo: ""

(RHEL/CentOS only) You can set a repo to use for the PostgreSQL installation by passing it in here.

    postgresql_restarted_state: "restarted"

Set the state of the service when configuration changes are made. Recommended values are `restarted` or `reloaded`.

    postgresql_python_library: python-psycopg2

Library used by Ansible to communicate with PostgreSQL. If you are using Python 3 (e.g. set via `ansible_python_interpreter`), you should change this to `python3-psycopg2`.

    postgresql_user: postgres
    postgresql_group: postgres

The user and group under which PostgreSQL will run.

    postgresql_unix_socket_directories:
      - /var/run/postgresql

The directories (usually one, but can be multiple) where PostgreSQL's socket will be created.

    postgresql_service_state: started
    postgresql_service_enabled: true

Control the state of the postgresql service and whether it should start at boot time.

    postgresql_global_config_options:
      - option: unix_socket_directories
        value: '{{ postgresql_unix_socket_directories | join(",") }}'

Global configuration options that will be set in `postgresql.conf`. Note that for RHEL/CentOS 6 (or very old versions of PostgreSQL), you need to at least override this variable and set the `option` to `unix_socket_directory`.

    postgresql_hba_entries:
      - { type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer }
      - { type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer }
      - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '127.0.0.1/32', auth_method: md5 }
      - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '::1/128', auth_method: md5 }

Configure [host based authentication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) entries to be set in the `pg_hba.conf`. Options for entries include:

  - `type` (required)
  - `database` (required)
  - `user` (required)
  - `address` (one of this or the following two are required)
  - `ip_address`
  - `ip_mask`
  - `auth_method` (required)
  - `auth_options` (optional)

If overriding, make sure you copy all of the existing entries from `defaults/main.yml` if you need to preserve existing entries.

    postgresql_locales:
      - 'en_US.UTF-8'

(Debian/Ubuntu only) Used to generate the locales used by PostgreSQL databases.

    postgresql_databases:
      - name: exampledb # required; the rest are optional
        lc_collate: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
        lc_ctype: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
        encoding: # defaults to 'UTF-8'
        template: # defaults to 'template0'
        login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
        login_password: # defaults to not set
        login_user: # defaults to 'postgresql_user'
        login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
        port: # defaults to not set
        owner: # defaults to postgresql_user
        state: # defaults to 'present'

A list of databases to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

    postgresql_users:
      - name: jdoe #required; the rest are optional
        password: # defaults to not set
        encrypted: # defaults to not set
        priv: # defaults to not set
        role_attr_flags: # defaults to not set
        db: # defaults to not set
        login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
        login_password: # defaults to not set
        login_user: # defaults to '{{ postgresql_user }}'
        login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
        port: # defaults to not set
        state: # defaults to 'present'

A list of users to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

    postgres_users_no_log: true

Whether to output user data (which may contain sensitive information, like passwords) when managing users.

    postgresql_version: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_data_dir: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_bin_path: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_config_path: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_daemon: [OS-specific]
    postgresql_packages: [OS-specific]

OS-specific variables that are set by include files in this role's `vars` directory. These shouldn't be overridden unless you're using a version of PostgreSQL that wasn't installed using system packages.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: database
      become: yes
      vars_files:
        - vars/main.yml
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.postgresql

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

    postgresql_databases:
      - name: example_db
    postgresql_users:
      - name: example_user
        password: supersecure

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
